65% of health care expenses are out-
of-pocket expenses.  Why?
Because those are OPD expenses which are
generally not covered in your health insurance policies.
So today we have
brought its session.  We will also talk about four such
OPD plans which you can consider for yourself.
Where
your out of pocket expenses along with hospitalization will also be
covered.  So stay till the end of the video.
These plans are going to be very useful.
Before starting the video, I would like to
introduce myself.  My name
is Gurleen Koutikoo and I am a Certified
Financial Planner.  I have been
associated with the insurance industry for the last 20 years
and every week I bring you videos to make
your insurance buying
journey easy and happy.  In today's video, we will
talk about four OPD plans
that you can consider so that
your health care expenses can be
covered holistically.  Everything should be covered, including
hospitalization and OPD.  So the
first one is Nimapa's Well Consult Rider.   The
second is HDFC Ago's Optima Well Being
Rider.  Third is ICICI LBD's Be Fit
Rider.  Fourth is the Star Health Outpatient
Care Plan.  So the first three are the riders
that you can take with the policies
of the respective companies.  And the fourth one is
policy.  This is an OPD policy
which is a separate stand alone OPD policy.
So now let's talk about Neeva as BPA's well
consult rider.  What is covered in this
?  So what is the coverage scope?  Is.  Tele
consultations are included.  Physical
consultations are included.  Diagnostic
tests are included.  Your pharmacy
is included.  Gym membership is included.
Fitness coaching and diet and nutrition
consultancy are included.  And
emotional wellness sessions are also included.  So
of course there is a limit to all these things.  There
is a limit prescribed as to how much you can take
or how many sessions you can take,
we will also talk about that.  Now let's talk about
what is included in HDFC Ergo Optima Well Being.  Tele consultations are
included with general physicians and
specialists.
You can also do physical consultation with general practitioners.
Psychological consultations are included
and fitness sessions are included.  Life
fitness sessions included.  Diet and
nutrition consultancy is also included and not only this, there
are some other value added services as well like you get discount on lab tests
and if
you order medicines through them then you
get discount.  And you
can get the test done at home.  You also get free home sample collection.
If you book through HDFC Ago app.
Now let's talk about
ICIC LB which is a B fit rider.  Be Fit That
You Stay Fit and options available in it are
A to F.  So you
can choose as many features as you want.
And here OPD consultations
are included, diagnostic tests
are included.  Pharmacy included.
Physiotherapy sessions and tele-consultation are also
included.  E-counselling session with
psychologist is included.  Nutritional
wellness consultation included.
Preventive care, which is a health checkup for
adults above 20 years of age,
is also included.  Well Being Coach is a health
program that gives you points
which you can redeem and
also get discount on renewal premium.  We will
talk further about how much and what
is included.  Star's
Outpatient Care Plan It is a unique plan
which is an outpatient policy.  OPD policy is
not a rider in itself.  This is OPD policy.
If you need OPD coverage, you can
take this policy separately.
What is covered on this?  There is OPD consultation,
AYUSH consultation, tele consultation,
physical consultation, diagnostic test,
physiotherapy, pharmacy, dental treatment
and ophthalmic treatment.  So all these things will be
covered in this policy.  So now
you can avail the Well Consult rider of Neevapa
with Neevapa Health Aspire plan.  It
is available only with that.
Currently,
you may start getting this add-on rider with other plants also.  But
currently you can take it with Neemuka Health Aspire.
You can take HDFC Ago.
With both HDFC ARGO Optima Secure and Optima Restore plans, you can avail add-on
riders by paying additional
premium.  ICICI LBA's Be Fit Rider
is available with two plans of ICICI LBD.  The
first is health advantage.  The second is the
Elevate plan.  With both you
can add add ons.  So the minimum and maximum
entry age will be as per the product.   For
example, the minimum entry age in Aspire is 18 and the
maximum is 65.  So you
can buy this product accordingly.  Similarly, the
minimum entry age of HDFC and Opt Secure
is 18 and there is no maximum limit, the same will be
applicable for the rider.  The
minimum entry age for the ICIC LB B Fit Rider is six and the
maximum age is 65 years.  The
minimum entry age in Star Health is 18, maximum 50
years.  So you can enter this policy only till 50 years.
Now let's talk about
how you can claim it.  Both
cashless and reimbursement options are available in this Aspire plan.
You
can consult doctors cashless, meaning
you can book them through their application and
consult the doctor by taking an appointment.
Second, if you want to take physical consultation
with your doctor, then
you will go there, pay the bill yourself and
file the reimbursement with Neva Bupa,
which will be reimbursed to you with 20% interest.
Your cashless is available at HDFCO Optima Well Being.  Even
if you have to
consult online, it is cashless.  If you need to
consult a doctor physically, that too is
cashless.  If you are booking a physical consultation with a general practitioner, the
cashless transaction will be done through their panel only.  You don't have to
give anything.  There will be no remembrance.
Booking will be done from here through HDFC Argo application.
ICICI lb's Bfit is also on cashless basis
and Star Health Outpatient Care Plan is also
on cashless basis.  So now
to avail OPD benefits in Neevapa, you have to
download Neevapa Health App.  To
avail OPD facility at HDFC Ergo, you have to
download the HDFC ergo app.
In ICIC LBD there is IL Tech Care app, you have to
download it and in Star Health there is Star
Health app, you have to download it.  So
through it you can enable all these features.
So now let's talk about how much of what
is covered.  Meaning, how many online
consultations are there, how many physical consultations
are there, how much can you charge for pharmacy,
how much are the diagnostic tests covered for?
And so on.  So at Neevapa Well Consult your
tele video consultation is unlimited.
You will book this through the Neevapa Health app and
can claim unlimited number of times for tele-video consultations.  Physical
consultation is available for up to ₹10,000.
You can also book physical from the app.
You will not have to pay anything where it is cashless.  And
if you take reimbursement, that is, you get
reimbursement after consulting your doctors, then there is
20% copay.  Then the diagnostic test
is covered up to ₹10,000.  And these
diagnostic tests should be prescribed
by the doctor whom you consulted,
through his panel or if you get it done yourself then the
diagnostic tests should be done there.
Meaning it should happen in this entire ecosystem.
You will not get any diagnostic test done from outside.
Diagnostic tests prescribed by the doctor.
Pharmacy means medicines will also cost you
₹2500.  This is the annual limit that you
can avail.  This is the combined limit for the entire year.  There
is a limit on the entire policy.  If it
is an individual then this is the total limit.
Even if it is a family floater, the total limit is the same.
Gym membership is also available for two visits per
week per adult.  AI Fitness Coaching Diet
& Nutrition This is unlimited. Emotional
Wellness Sessions 10 sessions included.  These are the
sessions.  Now let's talk about HDFC Ergo
Optima Well Being.  So here the
technical consultation means physical
consultation with GP which is general
practitioner that is unlimited.  There
is no limit.  You can
locate a General Practitioner as
per your pin code and
book and consult with them as many times as you want through the HDFC Ago Har app.
So keep this thing in mind.
They should have a tie up in your area.  Only then will
you get this rider.  If there is
no tie up in your area at present.  Gradually
tie-ups are happening in more cities.  Only then can you
take this rider.  Otherwise I cannot take it.
And unlimited teleconsultation
is included, through which
you can consult with general practitioners and specialists
on the phone.  After that, your home sample
collection for whatever tests you need to get done,
if you do it through HDFC Ago Hear app, then no matter
how many tests there are, even just one test,
it is free irrespective of the cart value.
E Wellness Consult You can get counselling
for mental health, diet and nutrition
unlimited number of times through the HDFC
Eggo Here app.  You can also book online fitness classes
from here which are unlimited for yourself in
which you can do yoga, Zumba,
Pilates etc.  If you
get lab tests, scans, checkups or medicines,
you get up to 50% off
if you book through HDFC Ergo Hair app.
Now let's talk about ICC LM BF Fit
Rider.  So in this rider we
talked about A to F options being available.
So whatever consultations you have,
diagnostic tests, pharmacy, all these are
according to these options.  Whatever option you
choose, suppose if you do
not choose option A, then you
get 12 tele consultations in it.  You get e-counseling
six.  Diet and Nutrition E
consultation is available.  The Health
Management Program that
I told you about will not be there.  In which you
can register and in which you
also get some points.  You get a health coach and
you
can also claim the discount on renewal for managing your health.  If you are covered
under Plan B, outpatient consultation is
not included.  Meaning physical consultation
is not included.  Routine diagnostic
cover and minor procedure cover are included for you.
Pharmacy cover is included.   There
are no physiotherapy sessions.  Tele
consultation is 12.  E Counseling Six.  Diet
nutrition and e consultation is six.
Less for Plan D than let's.  There is C also and there
is D in the middle.  There is a table in front of you.
You have eight outpatient consultations at D.  Eight
times you can consult a doctor in
person which is physical consultation.  Then
your routine diagnostic tests are also covered.
Its limit is up to Rs 2000.  Pharmacy
is covered up to Rs 2000.  Physiotherapy sessions are also
included which is at.  Tele consultation
is included 12.  There is counselling session at.
Diet and Nutrition E Consultation is at.
Then preventive care means health checkup for
20 and above age.  And
you can also choose health management program which
is optional.  So it's like this up to F.
In F, your outpatient consultation becomes
18 and your routine diagnostic
cover and minor procedure cover have a limit of ₹5000.  There
is also a pharmacy cover of ₹5000.   There
are also physiotherapy sessions 12.  Tele
consultation is unlimited.  E Counselling
Unlimited.  Diet and Nutrition
eConsultation is unlimited.  Preventive care
is your yes available.  Well Being Programme,
Ambulance Assistance, Value Added Service
and Health Management Programme are optional.
So you
can avail these benefits according to the package you choose.  Here also,
this facility will be available or
not depending on your area and your pin code.  Currently some parts are
not available in India.  If it is available in your city
then you can avail it.
You can choose this rider when purchasing the policy.
You have to check in IL Tech Care app
where their tie up is in your pin code.
Accordingly, if you want to select a doctor
, book an appointment or
book diagnostic tests and do all this, then
it is completely cashless.  If
you consult your own doctor and he is saying that you need to get a
rib replacement done, that is not possible
in ICC No Part.  Now let's talk
about the Star Outpatient Care Plan.
Here the sum assured option is available in
Silver, Gold and Platinum.  Sum Assured
options are ₹25,000, ₹0,000, ₹75,000 and ₹1
Lakh.  Out of these, you can choose
₹25,000 because this is an OPD plan.  This does
not include inpatient hospitalization.  It
works just like an OPD.  So
you can choose the amount from Rs 25,000, Rs 500, Rs 75,000 and up to Rs 1 lakh.  Premium will be
decided accordingly.  So here if we talk about
silver, gold and platinum, there are three types of
plants.  We will see later what their
relevance is.  So whatever we talked about, whatever
things are covered like OPD consultation,
tele consultation, AYUSH consultation, ophthalmic consultation,
dental consultation, dental
treatments, physiotherapy, pharmacy,
diagnostic tests, all these will be covered
up to ₹25,000, ₹5,000, ₹75,000 or ₹1 lakh,
whatever sum assured you choose, it will be
covered up to that.  Now let's talk about waiting
periods.  So OPD coverage also
comes with your waiting periods.  Initial
waiting period of 30 days means that for the first 30 days
you cannot use the OPD plan or OPD
rider.
Any consultation related to a growing illness will have a
waiting period of two years.  The
waiting period for pre-existing diseases will remain the same as the
waiting period of your policy.
Suppose the waiting period of NVPR in Niva BuPa
is 3 years.  36 months is the
waiting period.  HDFC Ergo
Optima Secure has 3 years pre
existing condition.  So there will be a waiting period of 36 months
for pre-existing
conditions OPD consultation.  In ICICI Lomond,
your waiting period is three years or whatever it is
for that respective plan,
so the same waiting period will be applicable here also
on B Fit Rider.
Now I told you about Silver, Gold and
Platinum of Star Health, what is its relevance.
If you take the Silver plan, there
is a waiting period of 48 months for pre-existing
conditions.  If you buy gold, there
is a waiting period of 24 months for pre-existing
diseases.  And if you take platinum then there is a
waiting period of 12 months for pre-existing
diseases.  Now let us talk about the premiums and
how much the premiums actually are.
Here I have taken the premium calculation for
family floater and it is as per zone one.
10 lakh as per sum assured.  So
in Neevapa plan Neevapa Aspire with Well
Consult benefit your premium
family size of Zone One is two adults.  35 and 30 is the edge.  The
premium will be Rs
2556 including 18% GST
including rider of well concern in which you
can avail all the benefits of OPD.
Next up is the HDFC Ergo Optima Secure
with Optima Well Being Rider priced at ₹2960 for the same age.
ICICI Low LMT Plan Me Yahan Pay
With BF Fit Rider or BF Fit Rider I have
chosen Plan A.  If you
want to choose other plans like B, C, D, E, F then the
premium will increase accordingly.  The
premium with plan A is
14185 and if you
take plan F of BF Fifty Fifty Rider in ICC LBAD Elevate itself, then the
premium is 18816 inclusive of the rider
cost inclusive of GST. Now we will talk about
Star Health Outpatient Care Plan,
here I have taken 1 lakh OPD plan
because there were four options 25000 50000
75000 and 1 lakh for 1 lakh OPD plan,
Silver, Gold and Platinum, Gold has 24
months and Platinum has 12 months, so the
premium of Silver is
₹114 again Family of Two, Gold has 17770
and Platinum has 18939, means by paying 18939,
if you take Platinum also, then you
can get benefits up to 1 lakh, this is the meaning of this policy.
So these were the details from our side
about the OPD plan.
Separate independent videos have also been made for these plans.
Like you will get Neeser.  HDFC
Optima Secure will be available and ICICI
LBA Elevate Plan will also be available.  And there
is a separate video of these riders also.  Nivapa
is also of Well Consult.  There
is also a video of HDFCO Optima Well Being Rider.  And there
is also a separate video of ICIC LB Fit Rider.  You
can watch these videos in detail if
you are interested in these plans.  Because
your due diligence is extreme
before getting it to any insurance plan
and any insurance policy.  So, these were
our picks for the best four OPD plans that are
available in the market that you
can consider to cover your out-of-pocket
expenses.  If you have any questions, you can
ask in the comment section.  If you want to add some points, please do so.  If you
want to give some feedback on
what we should make a video on, please tell us that too.
We will try to make a video on that.
And before we go, a quick reminder, if
you haven't subscribed to our channel yet, please do so.
So that you get the right
infection at the right time.  See you
in the next video with a new topic.  Till then stay safe.
Take care.  Bye bye.